add-apt-repository(1)                                                                               General Commands Manual                                                                               add-apt-repository(1)

NAME
       add-apt-repository - Adds a repository into the /etc/apt/sources.list or /etc/apt/sources.list.d or removes an existing one

SYNOPSIS
       add-apt-repository [OPTIONS] [LINE]

DESCRIPTION
       add-apt-repository is a script which adds an external APT repository to either /etc/apt/sources.list or a file in /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ or removes an already existing repository.

OPTIONS
       Note that the --list, --ppa, --cloud, --uri, --sourceslist, and LINE parameters are mutually exclusive; only one (or none) of them may be specified.

       -h, --help
              Show help message and exit.

       -d, --debug
              Print debug information to the command line.

       -r, --remove
              Remove the specified repository.

              This first will disable (comment out) the matching line(s), and then any modified file(s) under sources.list.d/ will be removed if they contain only empty and commented lines.

              Note  that this performs differently when used with the --enable-source and/or --component parameters.  Without either of those parameters, this removes the specified repository, including any deb-src line(s),
              and all components.  If --enable-source is used, this disables only the 'deb-src' line(s).  If --component is used, this removes only the specified component(s), and only removes the repository  if  no  compo‐
              nents remain.

              If  both --enable-source and --component are used with --remove, the actions are performed separately: the specified component(s) will be removed from both deb and deb-src lines, and deb-src lines will be dis‐
              abled.

       -y, --yes
              Assume yes to all queries.

       -n, --no-update
              After adding the repository, do not update the package cache.

       -l, --login
              Login to Launchpad (this is only needed for private PPAs).

       -s, --enable-source
              Allow downloading of the source packages from the repository.

              This adds and enables a 'deb-src' line for the repository.

              If this parameter is used without any repository, it will enable all currently existing disabled source repository (deb-src) entries that have a corresponding enabled binary repository (deb) entry.

              If this parameter is used twice without any repository, it will also add missing source repository entries for all existing binary repository (deb) entries.

       -c, --component
              Which component(s) should be used with the specified repository.

              If not specified, this will default to main.  This may be used multiple times to specify multiple components.

              If this is used without any repository, it will add the component(s) to all currently existing (enabled) repositories, but only if listed in the main sources.list file.

       -p, --pocket
              What pocket to use.

              Defaults to none, which is equivalent to the release pocket.

              If this is used without any repository, it will add the pocket to all currently existing repositories, but only if listed in the main sources.list file. It will use the components currently configured with the
              release pocket, or if that is not currently configured, it will use the main and restricted components.

       --dry-run
              Show what would be done, but don't make any changes.

       -L, --list
              List currently configured repositories.

              This will only list enabled repositories; it will not show disabled repository lines.

              By default, this shows only binary (deb) repositories.  If --enable-source is also used, this will also show source (deb-src) repositories.

       -P, --ppa
              Add an Ubuntu Launchpad Personal Package Archive.

              Must be in the format ppa:USER/PPA, USER/PPA, or USER.

              The USER parameter should be the Launchpad team or person that owns the PPA.  The PPA parameter should be the name of the PPA; if not provided, it defaults to 'ppa'.

              The GPG public key of the PPA will also be downloaded and added to apt's keyring.

              To add a private PPA, you must also use the --login parameter, and of course you must also be subscribed to the private PPA.

       -C, --cloud
              Add an Ubuntu Cloud Archive.

              Must be in the format cloud-archive:CANAME, uca:CANAME, or CANAME.

              The  CANAME  parameter should be the name of the Cloud Archive.  The CANAME parameter may optionally be suffixed with the pocket, as either -updates or -proposed.  If not specified, the pocket defaults to -up‐
              dates.

       -U, --uri
              Add an archive, specified as a single URI.

              If the URI provided is detected to be a PPA, this will operate as if the --ppa parameter was used.

       -S, --sourceslist
              Add an archive, specified as a full source entry line in one-line sources.list format.

              This must follow the ONE-LINE-STYLE format as described in the sources.list manpage.

              If the URI provided is detected to be a PPA, this will operate as if the --ppa parameter was used.

LINE
       LINE is a deprecated method to specify the repository to add/remove, provided only for backwards compatibility.  It can be specified in any of the supported formats: sources.list line, plain  uri,  ppa  shortcut,  or
       cloud-archive shortcut.  It can also be specified as one or more valid component(s).  The script will attempt to detect which format is provided.

       This is not recommended as the autodetection of which line format is intended can be ambiguous, but older scripts may still use this method of specifying the repository.

       One special case of LINE is providing the value -, which will then read the LINE from stdin.

EXAMPLES
       add-apt-repository -P ppa:user/repository

       add-apt-repository -P user/repository

       add-apt-repository -C cloud-archive:queens

       add-apt-repository -C uca:queens

       add-apt-repository -C queens

       add-apt-repository -S 'deb http://myserver/path/to/repo stable main'

       add-apt-repository -S deb http://myserver/path/to/repo stable main

       add-apt-repository -U http://myserver/path/to/repo -c main

       add-apt-repository -U https://packages.medibuntu.org -c free -c non-free

       add-apt-repository -U http://extras.ubuntu.com/ubuntu

       add-apt-repository -s

       add-apt-repository -L

       add-apt-repository -s -r

       add-apt-repository -c universe

       add-apt-repository -r -c multiverse

DEPRECATED EXAMPLES
       add-apt-repository deb http://myserver/path/to/repo stable main

       add-apt-repository http://myserver/path/to/repo main

       add-apt-repository https://packages.medibuntu.org free non-free

       add-apt-repository http://extras.ubuntu.com/ubuntu

       add-apt-repository multiverse

SEE ALSO
       sources.list(5) apt-get(8)

COPYRIGHT
       This  manual page was written by Chow Loong Jin <hyperair@gmail.com> for the Debian system (but may be used by others). Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU
       General Public License, Version 2 or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.

       On Debian systems, the complete text of the GNU General Public License can be found in /usr/share/common-licenses.

                                                                                                                                                                                                          add-apt-repository(1)
