dpkg-trigger(1)                                                                                            dpkg suite                                                                                           dpkg-trigger(1)

NAME
       dpkg-trigger - a package trigger utility

SYNOPSIS
       dpkg-trigger [option...] trigger-name

       dpkg-trigger [option...] command

DESCRIPTION
       dpkg-trigger is a tool to explicitly activate triggers and check for its support on the running dpkg.

       This can be used by maintainer scripts in complex and conditional situations where the file triggers, or the declarative activate triggers control file directive, are insufficiently rich. It can also be used for
       testing and by system administrators (but note that the triggers won't actually be run by dpkg-trigger).

       Unrecognized trigger name syntaxes are an error for dpkg-trigger.

COMMANDS
       --check-supported
           Check if the running dpkg supports triggers (usually called from a postinst). Will exit 0 if a triggers-capable dpkg has run, or 1 with an error message to stderr if not. Normally, however, it is better just to
           activate the desired trigger with dpkg-trigger.

       -?, --help
           Show the usage message and exit.

       --version
           Show the version and exit.

OPTIONS
       --admindir=dir
           Change the location of the dpkg database. The default location is /var/lib/dpkg.

       --root=directory
           Set the root directory to directory, which sets the administrative directory to «directory/var/lib/dpkg» (since dpkg 1.21.0).

       --by-package=package
           Override trigger awaiter (normally set by dpkg through the DPKG_MAINTSCRIPT_PACKAGE environment variable of the maintainer scripts, naming the package to which the script belongs, and this will be used by
           default).

       --no-await
           This option arranges that the calling package T (if any) need not await the processing of this trigger; the interested package(s) I, will not be added to T's trigger processing awaited list and T's status is
           unchanged.  T may be considered installed even though I may not yet have processed the trigger.

       --await
           This option does the inverse of --no-await (since dpkg 1.17.21).  If the interested package has declared a “noawait” directive, then this option will not be effective.  It is currently the default behavior.

       --no-act
           Just test, do not actually change anything.

EXIT STATUS
       0   The requested action was successfully performed.  Or a check or assertion command returned true.

       1   A check or assertion command returned false.

       2   Fatal or unrecoverable error due to invalid command-line usage, or interactions with the system, such as accesses to the database, memory allocations, etc.

ENVIRONMENT
       DPKG_ROOT
           If set and the --root option has not been specified, it will be used as the filesystem root directory (since dpkg 1.21.0).

       DPKG_ADMINDIR
           If set and the --admindir option has not been specified, it will be used as the dpkg data directory.

       DPKG_COLORS
           Sets the color mode (since dpkg 1.18.5).  The currently accepted values are: auto (default), always and never.

SEE ALSO
       dpkg(1), deb-triggers(5), /usr/share/doc/dpkg/triggers.txt.gz.

1.21.1                                                                                                     2023-04-01                                                                                           dpkg-trigger(1)
