NETWORKCTL(1)                                                                                              networkctl                                                                                             NETWORKCTL(1)

NAME
       networkctl - Query the status of network links

SYNOPSIS
       networkctl [OPTIONS...] COMMAND [LINK...]

DESCRIPTION
       networkctl may be used to introspect the state of the network links as seen by systemd-networkd. Please refer to systemd-networkd.service(8) for an introduction to the basic concepts, functionality, and configuration
       syntax.

COMMANDS
       The following commands are understood:

       list [PATTERN...]
           Show a list of existing links and their status. If one ore more PATTERNs are specified, only links matching one of them are shown. If no further arguments are specified shows all links, otherwise just the
           specified links. Produces output similar to:

               IDX LINK         TYPE     OPERATIONAL SETUP
                 1 lo           loopback carrier     unmanaged
                 2 eth0         ether    routable    configured
                 3 virbr0       ether    no-carrier  unmanaged
                 4 virbr0-nic   ether    off         unmanaged

               4 links listed.

           The operational status is one of the following:

           missing
               the device is missing

           off
               the device is powered down

           no-carrier
               the device is powered up, but it does not yet have a carrier

           dormant
               the device has a carrier, but is not yet ready for normal traffic

           degraded-carrier
               for bond or bridge master, one of the bonding or bridge slave network interfaces is in off, no-carrier, or dormant state

           carrier
               the link has a carrier, or for bond or bridge master, all bonding or bridge slave network interfaces are enslaved to the master

           degraded
               the link has carrier and addresses valid on the local link configured

           enslaved
               the link has carrier and is enslaved to bond or bridge master network interface

           routable
               the link has carrier and routable address configured

           The setup status is one of the following:

           pending
               udev is still processing the link, we don't yet know if we will manage it

           failed
               networkd failed to manage the link

           configuring
               in the process of retrieving configuration or configuring the link

           configured
               link configured successfully

           unmanaged
               networkd is not handling the link

           linger
               the link is gone, but has not yet been dropped by networkd

       status [PATTERN...]
           Show information about the specified links: type, state, kernel module driver, hardware and IP address, configured DNS servers, etc. If one ore more PATTERNs are specified, only links matching one of them are
           shown.

           When no links are specified, an overall network status is shown. Also see the option --all.

           Produces output similar to:

               ●        State: routable
                 Online state: online
                      Address: 10.193.76.5 on eth0
                               192.168.122.1 on virbr0
                               169.254.190.105 on eth0
                               fe80::5054:aa:bbbb:cccc on eth0
                      Gateway: 10.193.11.1 (CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.) on eth0
                          DNS: 8.8.8.8
                               8.8.4.4

           In the overall network status, the online state depends on the individual online state of all required links. Managed links are required for online by default. In this case, the online state is one of the
           following:

           unknown
               all links have unknown online status (i.e. there are no required links)

           offline
               all required links are offline

           partial
               some, but not all, required links are online

           online
               all required links are online

       lldp [PATTERN...]
           Show discovered LLDP (Link Layer Discovery Protocol) neighbors. If one or more PATTERNs are specified only neighbors on those interfaces are shown. Otherwise shows discovered neighbors on all interfaces. Note
           that for this feature to work, LLDP= must be turned on for the specific interface, see systemd.network(5) for details.

           Produces output similar to:

               LINK             CHASSIS ID        SYSTEM NAME      CAPS        PORT ID           PORT DESCRIPTION
               enp0s25          00:e0:4c:00:00:00 GS1900           ..b........ 2                 Port #2

               Capability Flags:
               o - Other; p - Repeater;  b - Bridge; w - WLAN Access Point; r - Router;
               t - Telephone; d - DOCSIS cable device; a - Station; c - Customer VLAN;
               s - Service VLAN, m - Two-port MAC Relay (TPMR)

               1 neighbors listed.

       label
           Show numerical address labels that can be used for address selection. This is the same information that ip-addrlabel(8) shows. See RFC 3484[1] for a discussion of address labels.

           Produces output similar to:

               Prefix/Prefixlen                          Label
                       ::/0                                  1
                   fc00::/7                                  5
                   fec0::/10                                11
                   2002::/16                                 2
                   3ffe::/16                                12
                2001:10::/28                                 7
                   2001::/32                                 6
               ::ffff:0.0.0.0/96                             4
                       ::/96                                 3
                      ::1/128                                0

       delete DEVICE...
           Deletes virtual netdevs. Takes interface name or index number.

       up DEVICE...
           Bring devices up. Takes interface name or index number.

       down DEVICE...
           Bring devices down. Takes interface name or index number.

       renew DEVICE...
           Renew dynamic configurations e.g. addresses received from DHCP server. Takes interface name or index number.

       forcerenew DEVICE...
           Send a FORCERENEW message to all connected clients, triggering DHCP reconfiguration. Takes interface name or index number.

       reconfigure DEVICE...
           Reconfigure network interfaces. Takes interface name or index number. Note that this does not reload .netdev or .network corresponding to the specified interface. So, if you edit config files, it is necessary to
           call networkctl reload first to apply new settings.

       reload
           Reload .netdev and .network files. If a new .netdev file is found, then the corresponding netdev is created. Note that even if an existing .netdev is modified or removed, systemd-networkd does not update or
           remove the netdev. If a new, modified or removed .network file is found, then all interfaces which match the file are reconfigured.

OPTIONS
       The following options are understood:

       -a --all
           Show all links with status.

       -s --stats
           Show link statistics with status.

       -l, --full
           Do not ellipsize the output.

       -n, --lines=
           When used with status, controls the number of journal lines to show, counting from the most recent ones. Takes a positive integer argument. Defaults to 10.

       --json=MODE
           Shows output formatted as JSON. Expects one of "short" (for the shortest possible output without any redundant whitespace or line breaks), "pretty" (for a pretty version of the same, with indentation and line
           breaks) or "off" (to turn off JSON output, the default).

       -h, --help
           Print a short help text and exit.

       --version
           Print a short version string and exit.

       --no-legend
           Do not print the legend, i.e. column headers and the footer with hints.

       --no-pager
           Do not pipe output into a pager.

EXIT STATUS
       On success, 0 is returned, a non-zero failure code otherwise.

SEE ALSO
       systemd-networkd.service(8), systemd.network(5), systemd.netdev(5), ip(8)

NOTES
        1. RFC 3484
           https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3484

systemd 249                                                                                                                                                                                                       NETWORKCTL(1)
