PKCON(1)                                                                                                 User Commands                                                                                                 PKCON(1)

NAME
       pkcon - PackageKit console client

SYNOPSIS
       pkcon [OPTION...] [COMMAND]

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents briefly the pkcon command.

       pkcon is the command line client for PackageKit.

COMMANDS
       pkcon knows about the following commands. Depending on the backend in use, not all of them may be available.

       backend-details
           Print information about the PackageKit backend in use.

       get-roles
           List the roles that a transaction can have.

       get-groups
           List the available package groups.

       get-filters
           List the available filters.

       get-transactions
           List known transactions.

       get-time ROLE
           Print the time that has passed since the last transaction with the given role.

       search [name|details|group|file] DATA
           Search for a package matching the given data. The search is performed in the package information that is indicated by the first argument: name, details, group or files.

       install PACKAGES
           Install the given packages from repositories.

       install-local FILES
           Install the given packages from the local filesystem.

       download DIRECTORY PACKAGES
           Download the given packages from repositories, and store them in the given directory.

       install-sig TYPE KEY_ID PACKAGE
           Install a package signature. Only GPG signatures are supported at this time.

       remove PACKAGE
           Remove the given package.

       update [PACKAGES]
           Update the system by installing available updates. If a list of packages is specified, only install updates for these packages.

       refresh [force]
           Refresh the cached information about available updates.

       resolve PACKAGE
           Resolve the given package name and print information about installed or available packages and updates.

       upgrade-system DISTRIBUTION [minimal|default|complete]
           Upgrade the system to the given distribution.

       get-updates
           List available updates.

       get-distro-upgrades
           List available distribution upgrades.

       depends-on PACKAGE
           List dependencies fo the given package.

       required-by PACKAGE
           List packages that require the given package.

       get-details PACKAGE
           Print details about the available or installed package with the given name.

       get-details-local FILE
           Print details about the local package.

       get-files PACKAGE
           List the files contained in the given package.

       get-files-local FILE
           List the files contained in the local package.

       get-update-detail PACKAGE
           Print the package changelog for the given package.

       get-packages
           List all available and installed packages.

       repo-list
           List all configured package repositories.

       repo-enable REPOSITORY
           Enable the given repository.

       repo-disable REPOSITORY
           Disable the given repository.

       repo-set-data REPOSITORY PARAMETER DATA
           Set the given parameter to the given value for the repository.

       repo-remove REPOSITORY PARAMETER
           Removes the repository and optionally any packages installed from it.

       what-provides STRING
           List packages that provide the given string.

       accept-eula EULA_ID
           Accept the EULA with the given id.

       get-categories
           List available categories.

       repair
           Attempt to repair the system package database.

       offline-get-prepared
           Print information about the prepared offline update. If no offline update is prepared, exit with an exit code of 1.

       offline-trigger
           Trigger an offline update.

       offline-status
           Print information about the result of the last offline update.

OPTIONS
       The following options can be used to influence the behavior of pkcon.

       --version
           Print the program version and exit.

       -h, --help
           Show help options.

       --help-all
           Show all help options.

       --filter FILTER
           Set the filter to use.

       -y, --noninteractive
           Install packages without asking for confirmation.

       --only-download
           Prepare the transaction by downloading packages only.

       -n, --background
           Run the command using idle network bandwidth and also using less power.

       -p, --plain
           Print to screen a machine-readable output, rather than using animated widgets.

       -v, --verbose
           Show debugging information.

       -c, --cache-age AGE
           Set the maximum acceptable age for cached metadata, in seconds. Use -1 for 'never'.

       --allow-untrusted
           Allow untrusted packages to be installed.

       --allow-downgrade
           Allow packages to be downgraded during transaction.

       --allow-reinstall
           Allow packages to be reinstalled during transaction.

RETURN VALUES
       0
           Success

       1
           Failed with miscellaneous internal error.

       3
           Failed with syntax error, or failed to parse command.

       4
           Failed as a file or directory was not found.

       5
           Nothing useful was done.

       6
           The initial setup failed, e.g. setting the network proxy.

       7
           The transaction failed, see the detailed error for more information.

SEE ALSO
       pkmon (1).

       The programs are documented fully on http://www.packagekit.org.

AUTHOR
       This manual page was written by Richard Hughes <richard@hughsie.com>.

AUTHOR
       Richard Hughes
           Author.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright © 2007 - 2013 Richard Hughes

PackageKit                                                                                               July 29, 2013                                                                                                 PKCON(1)
