RENICE(1)                                                                                                User Commands                                                                                                RENICE(1)

NAME
       renice - alter priority of running processes

SYNOPSIS
       renice [-n] priority [-g|-p|-u] identifier...

DESCRIPTION
       renice alters the scheduling priority of one or more running processes. The first argument is the priority value to be used. The other arguments are interpreted as process IDs (by default), process group IDs, user
       IDs, or user names. renice'ing a process group causes all processes in the process group to have their scheduling priority altered. renice'ing a user causes all processes owned by the user to have their scheduling
       priority altered.

OPTIONS
       -n, --priority priority
           Specify the scheduling priority to be used for the process, process group, or user. Use of the option -n or --priority is optional, but when used it must be the first argument.

       -g, --pgrp
           Interpret the succeeding arguments as process group IDs.

       -p, --pid
           Interpret the succeeding arguments as process IDs (the default).

       -u, --user
           Interpret the succeeding arguments as usernames or UIDs.

       -V, --version
           Display version information and exit.

       -h, --help
           Display help text and exit.

FILES
       /etc/passwd
           to map user names to user IDs

NOTES
       Users other than the superuser may only alter the priority of processes they own. Furthermore, an unprivileged user can only increase the "nice value" (i.e., choose a lower priority) and such changes are irreversible
       unless (since Linux 2.6.12) the user has a suitable "nice" resource limit (see ulimit(1p) and getrlimit(2)).

       The superuser may alter the priority of any process and set the priority to any value in the range -20 to 19. Useful priorities are: 19 (the affected processes will run only when nothing else in the system wants to),
       0 (the "base" scheduling priority), anything negative (to make things go very fast).

HISTORY
       The renice command appeared in 4.0BSD.

EXAMPLES
       The following command would change the priority of the processes with PIDs 987 and 32, plus all processes owned by the users daemon and root:

       renice +1 987 -u daemon root -p 32

SEE ALSO
       nice(1), chrt(1), getpriority(2), setpriority(2), credentials(7), sched(7)

REPORTING BUGS
       For bug reports, use the issue tracker at https://github.com/karelzak/util-linux/issues.

AVAILABILITY
       The renice command is part of the util-linux package which can be downloaded from Linux Kernel Archive <https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/>.

util-linux 2.37.2                                                                                          2021-06-02                                                                                                 RENICE(1)
